Driving License
To get a driver's license in Ontario, you must be at least 16 years of age. Graduated licensing was introduced in Ontario in April 1994. In order to get your driver's license, you must go through three stages.

In the first stage, you obtain a Driver’s Handbook, which is available at any book store, convenience store, MTO office and also at various other locations such as Canadian Tire. Then, on or after your 16th birthday and once you have studied the handbook, you can go to the DriveTest centre nearest to you and write a theoretical G1 exam. You must bring $160.00 and 2 pieces of ID with you. You will also be required to pass a vision test. Once you pass the knowledge and vision examinations, you will be given a G1 license and you will be eligible to do a practical road test one year from that date. The G1 license is essentially your learner's permit.

Under a G1 class license, many conditions apply which are designed to help you gain experience before you can do your on-road examination. These restrictions are discussed below, and are also covered in the drivers handbook.

Anytime you are behind the wheel, you must be accompanied by a driver who has at least 4 years of full G class driving experience.
You are prohibited from driving between the hours of 12:00 AM and 5:00 AM (i.e. midnight to five).
You are prohibited from driving on any highways with posted speed limits of 80 km or above, including any of the 400 series highways, unless you are accompanied by a licensed driving instructor.
You must maintain a blood alcohol level of 0.00% at all times.
You must not have more passengers in your car than there are working seat belts.
After getting the G1 license, you are eligible to reduce the one-year waiting period for your first road test (G1 exit test) if you attend an approved driving school such as All Star. When you complete the full Ministry Approved Beginner Driver Education Course requirements, your certification will be processed allowing you to book your road test as early as 8 months after your G1 was issued instead of waiting a full year.

Once you have passed the first road test at the end of 8 or 12 months, you are given a G2 license. There are some conditions with a G2 class license, but far fewer when compared with G1 conditions. These restrictions are discussed below and are also covered in the driver’s handbook.
You must maintain a blood alcohol level of 0.00% at all times.
You must not have more passengers in your car than there are working seat belts.
If you are 19 or under, you can carry only one passenger of 19 or below between the hours of 12:00 AM and 5:00AM (midnight to five).
If you are 20 and above or have a license for more than six months, you can carry up to three passengers of 19 or below between the hours of 12:00 AM and 5:00AM (midnight to five).
The final phase of the graduated licensing system is the freeway driving examination to obtain a full G class license. G2 class license holders are eligible for the freeway examination (G2 exit test) one year after the G2 license issue date. It is currently not possible to reduce this one year waiting period. The freeway examination must be completed within 5 years from the issue date of the G1 license, otherwise the license will expire.